Copy-paste and edit `living_in_belgium.md` (#29)
cpp-lln-lab/CPP_LabGuide: doc/living_in_belgium.md

> # Living in Belgium 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Living in Belgium 

```

> All sections will be divided into EU/Non-EU  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All sections will be divided into EU/Non-EU  

```

- After your initial registration at the commune, they will send a police officer to your residential address to check that you really live there. They usually will not fix a time for this, it’s random. If there are other people living there, explain to them that this is happening and they can try to vouch for you if you are not in the house when the police come. Once you are confirmed to be living there, they will send a letter with the PIN/PUK codes for your card to that address. You go back to the commune with this letter and collect your card. The whole process takes about four weeks at least…

- More general relevant info for Louvain-la-Neuve https://www.uclouvain.be/en-355099.html and for Bruxelles http://be.brussels/living-in-brussels.

## Transportation

### Commute Brussels-Louvain-la-Neuve
Try not to advance money when buying a subscription. First ask the UCL for the form to obtain the subscription and THEN buy it. Otherwise you might not get fully reimbursed.

> You can ask [Veronique Vanhoegaerden](veronique.vanhoegaerden@uclouvain.be) from UCL. 

Reviewer: These email links won't work

> You can ask [Veronique Vanhoegaerden](veronique.vanhoegaerden@uclouvain.be) from UCL. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can ask Veronique Vanhoegaerden (veronique.vanhoegaerden@uclouvain.be) from UCL. 

```

> If you're FNRS, contact [Aurelie Volont](aurelie.volont@uclouvain.be) to ask for the subscription: "Following the agreements with SNCB, it was agreed that the UClouvain could issue the form for obtaining the SNCB subscription. This ensures that the amount does not have to be advanced, since the invoice is sent directly to the FNRS.In this case the subscription is 100% refunded as it is the system of the paying third part of which 80% by the FNRS and 20% by the state. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're FNRS, contact Aurelie Volont (aurelie.volont@uclouvain.be) to ask for the subscription: "Following the agreements with SNCB, it was agreed that the UClouvain could issue the form for obtaining the SNCB subscription. This ensures that the amount does not have to be advanced, since the invoice is sent directly to the FNRS.In this case the subscription is 100% refunded as it is the system of the paying third part of which 80% by the FNRS and 20% by the state. 

```

- Some other websites to check if you are looking for a room/apartment where to live either in Brussels or in Louvain-la-Neuve:
  https://www.facebook.com/groups/385369448291405/?fref=ts  
  https://www.facebook.com/groups/virtueljojo/  
  https://www.facebook.com/groups/195527370457521/  
  https://www.facebook.com/groups/188519461195986/  
  https://www.facebook.com/groups/134093889938198  
  http://www.appartager.be  
  http://www.expatarrivals.com/belgium/brussels/areas-and-suburbs-in-brussels

## Short-term accommodation

First of all, check the [UCLouvain webpage](https://uclouvain.be/en/study/logement-0.html) for accommodation. You can see lots of options there. 

[http://koterasmus.be/](https://koterasmus.be/) This is a group of students that are living together and share the project of welcoming, gathering and helping exchange students coming on the campus of Louvain-la-Neuve.

> #### BRUSSELS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### BRUSSELS

```

Website for UCLouvain accomodation : https://uclouvain.be/fr/etudier/logement/a-propos.html

Alternatives to UCLouvain accommodation: 

- https://www.placet.be/index.php/en/for-residents/accommodation  
- https://www.caleglln.com/ (This place belongs to Dominican friars and they are welcoming to international students who need short-term/long-term accommodation) 

### Gas, Electricity , water

## Mobile and Internet

- (SIM) BASE: Both prepaid and Postpaid offers. https://www.base.be/en/private.html
When you first enter Belgium you can buy a Base SIM by just  presenting your passport. 

- PROXIMUS: https://www.proximus.be/en/id_personal/personal.html  
                                 Home Internet ( basic and unlimited bundles)  
                     Home Internet+Phone connection and internet  
                     Home Internet+Phone connection and internet+TV +landline  
(getting this connection can take upto 2 weeks from the day of your first appointment/call +32 800 55 800(toll free))

## For Non-EU
### Visa: 

> [IMAGE]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[IMAGE]

```

- More general relevant info for Louvain-la-Neuve https://www.uclouvain.be/en-355099.html and for Bruxelles http://be.brussels/living-in-brussels.

## Transportation

### Commute Brussels-Louvain-la-Neuve
Try not to advance money when buying a subscription. First ask the UCL for the form to obtain the subscription and THEN buy it. Otherwise you might not get fully reimbursed.

You can ask Veronique Vanhoegaerden (veronique.vanhoegaerden@uclouvain.be) from UCL. 

If you're FNRS, contact Aurelie Volont (aurelie.volont@uclouvain.be) to ask for the subscription: "Following the agreements with SNCB, it was agreed that the UClouvain could issue the form for obtaining the SNCB subscription. This ensures that the amount does not have to be advanced, since the invoice is sent directly to the FNRS.In this case the subscription is 100% refunded as it is the system of the paying third part of which 80% by the FNRS and 20% by the state. 

If the subscription has already been contracted or is only for STIB or TEC, De Lijn, without SNCB then the FNRS only reimburses 80% on the basis of proof of purchase."

> ### Train (SNCB)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Train [SNCB](https://www.belgiantrain.be/en)

```

The direct train from Brussels to LLN passes in these train stations: Midi, Centrale, Nord, Schuman, Luxembourg, Etterbeek.

> [!WARNING]
> Delays and platform changes can happen frequently so always check the SNCB app while traveling

#### Train Tickets for under the age of 26
For people who are under 26, there is a Youth Ticket, which allows you to travel anywhere in Belgium for €7.50 per journey. But be careful that it is economical for only long distances, like going to Bruges from Louvain-la-neuve. For short distances, standart ticket may be more economical than the youth ticket. 

> [!NOTE]
> **If you are coming in the summer period,** which starts from 1st July to 1st September, you can buy a monthly ticket allowing you unlimited traveling anywhere in Belgium for €35. 
**If you are coming in the school period,** [check here](https://www.belgiantrain.be/en/tickets-and-railcards/students-season-ticket?gad_source=1&gclid=Cj0KCQjwurS3BhCGARIsADdUH533KqgF9h_90dvp1wqSWvkr6ggtlO0l9oBvZkPwpbwrhGYfrkMBKB8aAhS3EALw_wcB). 

> ### BUS (TEC)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### BUS [TEC](https://www.letec.be/#/)

```

> ## Transportation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Living in Belgium 

## Bank account

## Health care

## Taxes

## Registration at the commune

## Transportation

```

Reviewer: Addi previous sub-paragraphs to make clear that not all the text for "Living in Belgium" has been copied

### Commute Brussels-Louvain-la-Neuve
Try not to advance money when buying a subscription. First ask the UCL for the form to obtain the subscription and THEN buy it. Otherwise you might not get fully reimbursed.

> You can ask veronique vanhoegaerden from UCL. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can ask Veronique Vanhoegaerden from UCL. 

```

Reviewer: Link missing from gdoc

> If you're FNRS, contact Aurelie Volont to ask for the subscription: "Following the agreements with SNCB, it was agreed that the UClouvain could issue the form for obtaining the SNCB subscription. This ensures that the amount does not have to be advanced, since the invoice is sent directly to the FNRS.In this case the subscription is 100% refunded as it is the system of the paying third part of which 80% by the FNRS and 20% by the state. 

Reviewer: `Aurelie Volont` missing link from gdoc

If the subscription has already been contracted or is only for STIB or TEC, De Lijn, without SNCB then the FNRS only reimburses 80% on the basis of proof of purchase."

> ### Train (SNCB)

Reviewer: link missing from gdoc

The direct train from Brussels to LLN passes in these train stations: Midi, Centrale, Nord, Schuman, Luxembourg, Etterbeek.

> [!WARNING]

> > A lot of delays and sometimes change of platforms - always check the SNCB app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Delays and platform changes can happen frequently so always check the SNCB app while traveling

```

> #### Train Tickets for under the age of 26

Author: I added this part for young members - no offense we're all young

> For people who are under 26, there is a Youth Ticket, which allows you to travel anywhere in Belgium for €7.50 per journey. But be careful that it is economical for only long distances, like going to Brugges from Louvain-la-neuve. For short distances, standart ticket may be more economical than the youth ticket. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For people who are under 26, there is a Youth Ticket, which allows you to travel anywhere in Belgium for €7.50 per journey. But be careful that it is economical for only long distances, like going to Bruges from Louvain-la-neuve. For short distances, standart ticket may be more economical than the youth ticket. 

```

Also, there is %50 discount in the standart ticket on the weekends! 
> [!NOTE]
> **If you are coming in the summer period,** which starts from 1st July to 1st September, you can buy a monthly ticket allowing you unlimited traveling anywhere in Belgium for €35. 
**If you are coming in the school period,** and you have the student document for transportation (certificate of provisional registration), you can buy an abonnement between two stations (e.g. LLN-Brussels zone). Be aware that it is not the same ticket as the summer period, it is only valid between stations that you choose. 

> ### BUS (TEC)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### BUS (TEC)

```

Reviewer: link missing from gdoc

There is a direct bus from Etterbeek station and Roodebeek Station. 

> [!TIP]

> > If you are confused with which ticket to buy, be aware that the bus ticket for going between Brussels and LLN is the express one, which is €5. 

Author: I added this little info

> > If you are confused with which ticket to buy, be aware that the bus ticket for going between Brussels and LLN is the express one, which is €5. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you are confused with which ticket to buy, be aware that the bus ticket for going between Brussels and LLN is the express one, which is €5. 
```suggestion
> If you are confused about which ticket to buy, be aware that the bus ticket for going between Brussels and LLN is the express one, which is €5. 

```
```

> #### BRUSSELS - LLN by bus and train
> The easiest neighbourhoods in Brussels to reach LLN by train are in the south-east part of the city (Ixelles/Etterbeek/Schuman). 
> There is also a bus (E11) going from Delta (neighborhood Auderghem/watermael-Boitsfort) to LLN in 35min
> Or a bus (E12) going from Woluwé (Roodebeek/Stockel/Alma) to LLN in 30min. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

If you are looking to rent your own place, try http://www.immoweb.be. You can filter by location, price, as well as "furnished" or "unfurnished". Note that if you take an unfurnished flat it's common to have absolutely NOTHING in it. No blinds, no light fixtures, potentially no kitchen! Note that kitchens are often described as “semi-equipped” or “hyper-equipped”, this refers to what type of appliances are there (dishwasher, fridge, etc).
Some other websites to check if you are looking for a room/apartment where to live either in Brussels or in Louvain-la-Neuve:
* https://www.facebook.com/groups/385369448291405/?fref=ts
* https://www.facebook.com/groups/virtueljojo/
* https://www.facebook.com/groups/195527370457521/
* https://www.facebook.com/groups/188519461195986/
* https://www.facebook.com/groups/134093889938198
* https://www.facebook.com/groups/1798484627017398
* http://www.appartager.be
* http://www.expatarrivals.com/belgium/brussels/areas-and-suburbs-in-brussels

> ### Temporary accommodation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Short-term accommodation

```

> First of all, check the UCLouvain webpage for accommodation: https://uclouvain.be/en/study/logement-0.html You can see lots of options there. 

Author: added this line and link because the previous link of the UCLouvain accommodation webpage wasn't working

Reviewer: Check that these links work in the rendered version

> [http://koterasmus.be/](https://koterasmus.be/) This is a group of students that are living together and share the project of welcoming, gathering and helping exchange students coming on the campus of Louvain-la-Neuve. Currently it doesn't seem very active though. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[http://koterasmus.be/](https://koterasmus.be/) This is a group of students that are living together and share the project of welcoming, gathering and helping exchange students coming on the campus of Louvain-la-Neuve.

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### BRUSSELS
The easiest neighbourhoods in Brussels to reach LLN by train are in the south-east part of the city (Ixelles/Etterbeek/Schuman). 
There is also a bus (E11) going from Delta (neighborhood Auderghem/watermael-Boitsfort) to LLN in 35min
Or a bus (E12) going from Woluwé (Roodebeek/Stockel/Alma) to LLN in 30min. 

```

Reviewer: moved back to its place

> #### LOUVAIN-la-NEUVE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### LOUVAIN-la-NEUVE

```

If you want to benefit from a university accommodation, you have to make the request as soon as possible since they are always full. Ideally, for a start in September, the request should be done in March/April before starting. If you come from abroad the accommodation service of the university may ask for a contract that you don't have yet. In such a situation, ask Olivier to send a recommendation letter explaining you will be hired by providing the details and motivation, this may help unlock the situation.
Website for UCLouvain accomodation : https://uclouvain.be/fr/etudier/logement/a-propos.html

> If you are coming for a short-term like 2-3 months, you should email them at least 1 or 1.5 months before arriving in Belgium to reserve a room. They answer very late sometimes, but if they don't answer for 1-2 weeks, send more emails highlighting that it's urgent.

Author: added this little info based on my experiences

> If you are coming for a short-term like 2-3 months, you should email them at least 1 or 1.5 months before arriving in Belgium to reserve a room. They answer very late sometimes, but if they don't answer for 1-2 weeks, send more emails highlighting that it's urgent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer: add that in general, one should do it as soon as possible

> ##### Alternatives: 

Author: again I added some alternatives based on my experiences

> ##### Alternatives: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatives to UCLouvain accommodation: 

```

- https://www.placet.be/index.php/en/for-residents/accommodation  

> - https://www.caleglln.com/ (This place belongs to Dominican friars and they are welcoming to international students who need short-term/long-term accommodation) 

Author: At the end of the accommodation section in the Google docs, there is a "Gas, Electricity, water" heading without anything under it and I didn't understand what is it. So I didn't include it here for now. If anyone knows any info about it, please add it.

Reviewer: I put it back

> - https://www.caleglln.com/ (This place belongs to Dominican friars and they are welcoming to international students who need short-term/long-term accommodation) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- https://www.caleglln.com/ (This place belongs to Dominican friars and they are welcoming to international students who need short-term/long-term accommodation) 

### Gas, Electricity , water

```
